Hi.
And in this video I'm going to show
you on a Mac that how you can
install the Python as well as how
you can run the Python programs.
Now there are two basic ways of how
One is in the shell itself.
That means in the terminal.
Yeah, the black thing
on the screen, terminal, shell,
whatever you call that, you can
simply go ahead and install that,
use an existing one and you can
just run Python in that.
The only problem is once
it's gone, it's just gone.
There is no memory or there is no
stored way of keeping the files.
Other way of writing the Python
programs are into a file with a
special extension PY so that you
can just store the code that you
have written into a file and you
can reuse it.
And yes, obviously the second one is
much more easier way, but I'll show
you that how it's being done and how
you can actually install the Python.
Now installing the Python is one
of the most easiest thing, one
of the most simplified thing.
I have installed a lot of programming
language, nothing comes
nearby when installing the Python.
It's the most easiest one.
Simply go to python.org and just
click on the downloads and you
can just download it for or this
one, it automatically detects
your system whether it's a Mac or
Linux or Windows and it just
gives you the exact version which
you want.
Now also in here you can see
there are a lot of ways
you can actually use this.
This is the shell.
I will walk you through how you can
use this in your system as well.
But actually you can just click
on this and it loads up a shell
where you can write some basic
Python within just this one.
So it's not really the best
and the fun way, but I'll still show
you some of the way I that I can
just go ahead and run it like this.
So I can just go ahead and say two
plus two and yeah, it does the job,
it adds, it's not a calculator,
it does more thing.
For example, I can just go
ahead and say import sys
before recording the video.
I was trying this as well
and it's import sys which
is a library in Python.
Remember I told you that
Python has a lot of rich
extensive set of library.
This is one of that which is
there in Python by default.
But I can install so many other third
party libraries which other great
programmers have written and can
work with this and then I can just
ask it that, hey, I want to show you
that what kind of system version is
there and print it in the
parenthesis and it just gives me
that hey, the current version of
Python you're working on is 3.10.5
and whole lot of details.
We can understand that
details later on.
But right now if I click on the
download and just click on this
download button, it takes me on the
page where I can see the whole
different versions of Python which
are available.
So different versions
which you can install.
My recommendation is go ahead
and install the latest one.
Although the code that we're going to
run here is not going to be too much
dependent on version, any latest
version is going to be just fine.
And you can just go ahead and look
for other versions like
Windows and Linux and all that.
You can just click on that and it
will show you all the other
Windows installers as well.
Pretty easy.
Now let me take you onto this.
So once you click on the download
on the Mac, it will give
you a package just like this.
Just double click
on this and there we go.
It opens this up.
I'll remove this so that
it's not really that bothered
onto your screen.
And please excuse my other
code part, I keep on working
on the stuff so it's okay.
And let me click on the continue.
This is the first step, then
click on Continue again,
then accept the licenses.
Yes, I do agree.
I have read them thoroughly
of course.
And then look for the installation.
This is going to take this much
of installation and the type
and just click on install and it is
going to install it for you.
Now for me it is already
being installed, so no need
to do this again for me.
But if you do it again it's not going
to bother you anything or like that.
So I can just click
on this and close it.
Now next is you need a terminal
to verify that and I can just press
command space and click on Terminal
and you can just open up your
default terminal which is available.
So no, remind me later.
This is not here, so please
excuse me, I'll just quit this.
This is not the terminal
that I'm looking for.
I'm looking for this Terminal app
and please excuse me,
this is my other system.
I'll just open up the Terminal app
and this is the second one
which I was looking up for.
This is on the Mac so I can
just go ahead and use it.
I'll tell you another
better version of it, but here I can
just go ahead and say Python.
In the Mac you have to say Python 3
with the correct spelling
of course, Python 3, because
on the Mac Python comes as A
default which is Python 2.
I don't know why they are still
shipping it Python 2, but Python 3
is something that you have to write.
Then simply say dash dash, that
is two minus and then simply
go ahead and say version and this
gives you that, hey, I have
installed Python 3.13.2.
As long as it is giving you some
version back, that's okay.
That is all good.
Now I these days don't use
this terminal too much because
I have a better thing installed
on my system and I will
still walk you through.
Now again, I love it.
That's why I'm showing you.
Feel free to not use it.
I use Warp and this is a terminal
which is available these days also
on Windows as well.
I happen to use this.
So if you look at this,
I do have available up here.
So this is my Warp.
I use it and again I can just run
the same command here as well.
I can just go ahead and say Python
and, and it gives me suggestions,
AI assistant and whatnot.
I can just hit enter.
So this is the one way
of running the Python.
If you want to run up, fire
up the same shell that we saw
on the website, we can
actually go ahead and do this.
All I have to do is say python3 and
hit enter and it loads up the same
shell that I saw there and I can do
all the things that I saw there,
two plus two, which is very
interesting.
And it gives me four.
That is nice.
I can go ahead and import the
sys and now I can just go ahead
and say print and then I can
say sys version and it gives me
the system version or what
Python I'm installed I have on
my system.
I can go ahead and type
the exit and it exits it out.
Previously it was not the case.
Previously it was all the time
exit with the parenthesis
and then only it exit.
But in the latest version of
Python they actually made a change
and wrote even a blog post that
now exit works because a lot
of people just write exit.
It was a common thing.
And throughout this course you're
going to hear these kinds of stories
which I think you will enjoy.
Now, apart from this, let me
also go ahead and show you
another way of running
and running the Python files.
So I'll just close this terminal
because I don't need it.
So I have this VS code as my code
editor, in case you're wondering.
Yes, you can go ahead
and download this as well.
So let's just Google this quickly.
This is VS code.
This is, these days one
of the Most popular editor available
for Mac, Windows and Linux.
And it does have AI as well.
We will be using it very less
in the initial time and after that
I'll walk you through how you
can use that a lot, better way.
And you can just go ahead
and download it for Mac,
Windows, whichever you want.
And this is what gives
you installation.
It's pretty easy and straightforward.
Now you'll see it like this.
And why is it looking the way it is?
Because I have installed
a theme on it.
So if you google it, just
for Chai theme, VS code.
This is the one theme which I
design and I'm super proud of it.
And it's almost 91,000 installs.
It looks good.
The code looks really
beautiful in it.
Use the dark mode only
and it looks out of the box.
So all you can do is click
on the extensions here.
This is the icon for the extension.
Just click up here and look
for the Chai theme.
So Chai theme and this is the one.
Just click on the install
and that's it.
It works.
And look, code looks beautiful.
Now apart from this, what you can do
is just drag and drop this folder.
So I have this folder Python ds.
Just drag and drop a folder
and that's it.
And we are going to write, we
are going to learn how to write all
of our Python code up here.
Now forget about all
these installation that
is happening up here.
These are all my AI
editors and assistants
and extension that I have.
I do work a lot in Python and when
the very first time you actually
write some Python code or save some
file, it might ask you to install
some additional extensions to help
you, to give you better suggestions
for the code.
And don't hesitate, just go
ahead and install them.
Now for the first time we are going
to remove this, but I'm going
to go ahead and create a folder
and inside this folder we're going
to create some Python code file.
So we're going to say 01 basics.
This is where the folder is.
Inside this folder I'm going
to create a new file.
I'm going to call this one as
test Python py.
The PY extension is really
important because this makes
the compiler know that this is
a file that is supposed to be
run by the Python interpreter
or the Python programming
language software.
Just go ahead and write the exact
same code that we have seen here.
So import sys we're going
to do that and I'm going to zoom
this up a little bit so it's
much Easier for you to see.
And there we go.
Once we have this import sys, we're
going to go ahead and say print.
Notice here the suggestions comes
up automatically for me.
This is because it has
already installed the Python sys
intellisense for me.
Go ahead and install that for you.
But again, no big deal, we can
just go ahead and write this and
I can just go ahead and see much
more suggestions compared to what
I was able to see on the
interpreter.
That's why we use these editors.
Once I go ahead and use this, then I
can actually open up the terminal.
I can just go ahead and click on
the terminal and say new terminal.
Or I can use the shortcut,
for me it's control and the tilde
just below your escape key.
And this opens up a terminal.
And in this terminal I can just
go ahead and say Python of course,
three because I'm on a Mac.
Then go into the folder 01.
When you open up your terminal,
it automatically opens
up this folder for you and then
you can just walk through.
So I'll just go into this, I press
the tab, by the way, and then I can
again, write this test Python py.
Once I hit enter, this
actually runs my code.
Now the only difference is this
code is permanently with me.
So this is so much easier to work
on with and we'll be using this.
But I'll walk you through a little
bit minor details before
writing the files like this.
But yeah, this is a fully
functional Python code.
And congratulations, before
even writing hello world,
you have written a much bigger
and much better of a code.
So this is what we have as
of now and I'm pretty sure
that you have enjoyed this.
It was not that bad.
It was easier comparatively.
We just downloaded a Python version,
we wrote some code in the shell,
we wrote some code, we learned
about the VS code as well as
Warp, a really good terminal.
And I'll show you a lot
of details as we go further.
This is the very basics, very
first of the Python code.
And you might have already
realized, yes, we are
not going into the basics.
We will be going into
extensive, in depth.
And yes, I've been
writing code for years.
I want to transfer this, all
of this knowledge to you as well.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up into the next video.